I remember the first time I saw that
NASA picture of Earth taken over the
moon
that picture somehow had the capacity to
just wrench your mind around so you
thought about things in a different way
our curves did that for a lot of people
for the first time they could start to
see the future consequences of what they
were doing now and for many people that
was really shocking
I went to the first presentation I
thought it was polling powerful the
thesis that growth had to be limited to
preserve the quality of the environment
the quality of life so this is the thing
that I still agree with today there are
limits to growth when we're bumping
against them right now
civilizations have crashed repeatedly in
the past
Egypt Mesopotamia the classic Maya
Rick civilizations and so on
the thing it's so scary today is that we
have for the first time a global
civilization that is doing what many of
those other ones did building a huge
population and abusing its environment
without any thought to the consequences
there can be no doubt what one subject
has aroused most controversy among
scientists during the past 12 maths I
mean of course the prospect of dueling
for mankind because of pollution
overpopulation overuse of resources what
has been called the eco crisis well I
think the conclusions of this study are
completely wrong
if you check there were various efforts
to discredit limits to growth and to
discredit Paul Ehrlich's work and indeed
much of what they said could come to
pass has not come to pass well does that
mean they're wrong no what it means is
all we've done is push off these
challenges that they very rightly
identified we do welcome dr. Paul
Ehrlich
my see again it's nice to be back as
always you know you were you've been on
our show a half a dozen times or so and
I remember the first time you're on the
show we talked about the Population Bomb
and when we talked about the geometric
progression of the number of people that
are accruing to this planet every day
and remember at that time that you said
and many other population biologists and
sociologists said that the time is going
to come when people are going to have a
rude awakening around the world and
especially in the United States where
they've been used to so much affluence
where we're gonna run out or there's
gonna be it's gonna come to a head
sooner or later because the resources of
the world are not finite and all of the
sudden now people for I think one of the
first times in history in this country
really realizes happening sorry
among gas 3000 kinda laser cut - Wow as
America has grown and prospered in
recent years our energy demands have
begun to exceed available supplies
unfortunately our expectations for this
winter have now been sharply altered by
the recent conflict in the Middle East
because of that war most of the Middle
Eastern oil producers have reduced
overall perception and cut off their
shipments of oil to the United States
King Faisal of Saudi Arabia announced an
embargo of oil to the United States
which was quickly then embraced by the
other Arab members of OPEC and so it
became the quote-unquote Arab oil
embargo well at that point cost four
dollars a barrel it's hard to remember
that America was really built on oil
that cost between two and four dollars a
barrel
the price rapidly shot up getting up
over $16 a barrel a 400% increase the
price of the gasoline quadrupled within
just two months there was a degree of
desperation because of shortages of
supplies people couldn't get gasoline
gas lines would stretch on for a half a
mile sometimes we were driving these big
cars absolutely reliant upon them and
you couldn't find gasoline
so they started rationing
I can't see the United States running
out of anything but maybe that's
prejudice that way I guess this guy I
think the United States should be able
have plenty of anything
you